Improve Lawnchair documentation (#4370)
Deletescape-Media/Lawnchair: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Lawnchair Contributing Guidelines

<picture>
    <!-- Avoid image being clickable with slight workaround --->
    <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="docs/lawnchair-round.webp" width="100">
    <img alt="" src="docs/lawnchair-round.webp" width="100">
</picture>

First and foremost, welcome to the **Lawnchair** Contributing Guidelines!

> This document will contain everything you'll need to contribute to the **Lawnchair** project.

Reviewer: We don't need to have this line; most contributing files don't contain everything.

An alternative is to add a link to the Lawnchair Wiki, since I plan on adding documentation there.

Author: Sure, that can be added after the documentation there is done.

## 👋 Before you start!

We would like you to be familiar with the tools we are using.

> The tool(s) you will be using depend on the type of contribution you are going to make.

Reviewer: Just to clarify: is this supposed to have some details on what to use, or just a general message saying "Please know your tools, thank you"? I'd suggest the former if the latter were the case.

I'd recommend making a list of tools that the contributor needs to be familiar with — otherwise, we can remove the section altogether.

Author: I believe @validcube was referring to the former but I'll remove it since it isn't necessary imo.

> ### 💫 Bug report & feature requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 💫 Bug reports & feature requests
```

For bug reports, please describe the bug in detail to the best of your ability
and steps on how to reproduce it. If applicable, attach log files.

For feature requests, please describe the feature you'd like to see added to Lawnchair.
If applicable, attach log files.

Please make sure to be civil during discussion of your contribution (refer to the [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md))

### 🌐 Translation

For translation, you only need to know one tool, [Crowdin](https://lawnchair.crowdin.com),

> which allows us to collaborate with multiple translators & proofreaders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For translation, visit [Lawnchair on Crowdin](https://lawnchair.crowdin.com) and follow these tips:
```
We don’t need to describe what a tool/program is.

-   When using quotation marks, insert the symbols specific to the target language, as listed in this [this summary table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quotation_mark#Summary_table);
-   Lawnchair uses title case for some English UI text while other languages do not use title case; opt for sentence case instead;
-   Some English terminology may have not have commonly-used equivalents in other languages. In such cases, use short descriptive phrases—for example, the equivalent of _bottom row_ for _dock_;
-   Some languages (e.g. French) have variations of words depending if it's masculine or feminine (gender-specific); we recommend opting for gender-neutral words instead.

### 🧑‍💻 Code

> [!NOTE]
> For Lawnchair 9 to 13, see the branches with the `9-` to `13-` prefixes respectively.

> For code, it's highly recommended that you use an IDE (e.g. [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio)),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For code, it's highly recommended that you use [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio),
```
Android Studio is the preferred IDE and most other features won't work in others.

know [Java](https://www.java.com) or preferably [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/), and [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

> which is a powerful source management control tool for collaborating with multiple programmers.

Reviewer: As stated above, we don't need to describe what `git` is.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > To clone the repository, you must clone the repository and its submodules using the recursive flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can use Git to clone the repository; ensure that you include the project’s submodules using the `recursive` flag:
```

>
> ```
> git clone --recursive https://github.com/LawnchairLauncher/lawnchair.git
> ```

> To build **Lawnchair**, select the `lawnWithQuickstepDebug` build type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build **Lawnchair**, select the `lawnWithQuickstepGithubDebug` build type.
```

Should you face errors relating to the `iconloaderlib` and `searchuilib` projects,
run `git submodule update --init --recursive`.

Here are some contribution tips to help you get started:

> -   Always make sure that you're up-to-date with **Lawnchair** by setting your branch to `14-dev` or newer;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Always make sure that you're up-to-date with **Lawnchair** by setting your base branch to `14-dev`.
```

-   Make sure your code is logical and well-formatted. If using Kotlin, see [“Coding conventions” in the Kotlin documentation](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/coding-conventions.html);
-   [The `lawnchair` package](https://github.com/LawnchairLauncher/lawnchair/tree/14-dev/lawnchair) houses Lawnchair’s own code, whereas [the `src` package](https://github.com/LawnchairLauncher/lawnchair/tree/14-dev/src) includes a clone of the Launcher3 codebase with modifications. Generally, place new files in the former, keeping changes to the latter to a minimum.

#### Additional documentation

-   Lawnchair Quickstep Compat Lib ([README.md](compatLib/README.md))
-   Lawnchair Preferences Components ([README.md](lawnchair/src/app/lawnchair/ui/preferences/components/README.md))
-   SystemUI ViewCapture ([README.md](systemUIViewCapture/README.md))
-   SystemUI Common ([README.md](systemUICommon/README.md))
-   Prebuilt Library ([README.md](prebuilts/libs/README.md))

#### Versioning scheme

As of [#4361](https://github.com/LawnchairLauncher/lawnchair/pull/4361), 

> the **Lawnchair** version code is separated by four parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lawnchair’s version code is separated by four parts:
```

<p align="center">
    <picture>
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="docs/version-dark.svg" width="98%">
        <img alt="" src="docs/version-light.svg" width="98%">
        <!-- Direct the accessibility reader to read the point below --->
    </picture>
</p>

1. Android's major version
2. Android's minor version
3. Lawnchair's development status
4. Lawnchair's development version

##### Android's major & minor versions

> These makes up the first two parts of the version code, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These make up the first two parts of the version code.
```

> Android 11 will be `11_00_XX_XX` while Android 12.1 will be `12_01_XX_XX`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example: Android 11 will be `11_00_XX_XX` while Android 12.1 will be `12_01_XX_XX`.
```

##### Development status & version

> Depending on which status the **Lawnchair** is on, 
> it will have an impact on the third and fourth parts of the version code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The third part of the version code indicates Lawnchair's stability status, while the fourth part indicates the version number.

```

> For example, alpha 4 for the **Lawnchair** will be `XX_XX_01_04`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Alpha 4's version code will be `XX_XX_01_04`. 
```

> Below is a table explaining the third part (release type):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the table below detailing the release type:
```

| Status            | Stage |
| ----------------- | ----- |
| Alpha             | 01    |
| Beta              | 02    |
| Release Candidate | 03    |
| Release           | 04    |

> ## Quick links
> 
> -   [News](https://t.me/lawnchairci)
> -   [Lawnchair on Twitter](https://twitter.com/lawnchairapp)
> -   [Website](https://lawnchair.app)
> -   [_XDA_ thread](https://forum.xda-developers.com/t/lawnchair-customizable-pixel-launcher.3627137/)
> 
> You can view all our links in the [Lawnchair Wiki](https://github.com/LawnchairLauncher/lawnchair/wiki).

Reviewer: Probably an oversight; please remove this since it isn't relating to contributing to Lawnchair.

```suggestion

```
